Child commissioner backs calls for LGBTI education
Calls for LGBTI education in schools have been backed by the Children and Young People's Commissioner for Scotland.
The Time for Inclusive Education (TIE) campaign want the Scottish government to commit to a new approach to tackle homophobic bullying.
Commissioner Tam Baillie said it was time to tackle discrimination of LGBTI pupils in schools.  
The Scottish government said it was taking steps to tackle all bullying.
Mr Baillie said: "Schools have a crucial role in developing our children and young people and it is time to tackle the discrimination of our LGBTI communities in school settings.  
"This should be addressed by the Scottish government and education providers to ensure we live up to our international rights obligations and to create school communities based on equality and respect for all."
A recent report, published by the campaign, found that 90% of LGBTI people experienced homophobia at school, with 27% of LGBTI school pupils reporting that they had attempted to take their own life as a result of bullying.
The campaigners are calling for new legislation.
A TIE spokesman said: "All children have a right to an inclusive education but, currently, many LGBTI learners in Scotland are not receiving any form of education which is reflective of their identity or the issues affecting them. 
"We are clear that this must be addressed, and we believe that all schools should be inclusive environments for LGBTI youth.
"We are delighted that the Children and Young People's Commissioner has supported our campaign and we hope that this will influence our decision makers to take more affirmative steps towards addressing the culture of silence around LGBTI within education."
A spokeswoman for the Scottish government said: "Bullying of any form is entirely unacceptable which is why we are continually working with local authorities and teachers to challenge any racist, homophobic and abusive behaviour in our schools.
"All schools and local authorities should have anti-bullying policies in place.
"We will publish an updated anti-bullying strategy to ensure that bullying of all kinds, including prejudice-based, is recorded accurately and monitored effectively. This will continue to be supported by respectme, Scotland's anti-bullying service.
"While Scotland does not have a statutory curriculum, relationships, sexual health and parenthood education is an integral part of the health and wellbeing area of the curriculum in Scotland and this includes issues relating to lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and intersex young people or children with LGBTI parents."
