Children 'should be taught about pornography and sexting'
Most people think schools should teach children about the impact of sexting and pornography, a charity says.
Plan International UK claims 75% of people think the impact of porn should be a compulsory part of the curriculum, while 7% oppose the move.
In its survey of 2,000 adults it said 71% of people wanted pupils to get lessons on sexting.
Education Secretary Justine Greening said she was looking at the issue, but a law change has not yet been proposed.
Plan International UK's chief executive, Tanya Barron, called for "children's education to reflect the 21st Century reality of their lives".
Currently, all secondary schools in England under local authority control have to teach sex education as part of the science curriculum but this is limited to the biological aspects of reproduction and does not cover relationships. 
But a loophole means academies and free schools - which are controlled by central government rather than local authorities - do not have to follow the national curriculum and are not, therefore, obliged to teach the subject.
Sex education is also taught at most secondary schools in Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland, where there are separate education guidelines.
Parents can opt to take their children out of these classes.
Ms Barron said children were exposed to sexual imagery on a "daily basis".
"Children themselves, girls in particular, are telling us that they feel they need improved, age-appropriate mandatory sex and relationships education," she said.
"This would help them navigate these difficult issues."
Plan UK's poll of UK adults, carried out by Opinium, also found that:
The findings come amid growing pressure for sex education to be compulsory in schools.
The Local Government Association warned that pupils in England's schools were at risk of contracting sexually transmitted infections when they reached adulthood, because they were not being properly prepared.
"I want compulsory lessons at school to help children better understand the signs of an abusive relationship, issues such as consent and the harm that is done by sexting and underage viewing of pornography," she said.
Last year, a parliamentary inquiry said there were "alarming inconsistencies" in the way schools deal with sexual harassment and violence.
