Echo Chambers
A review of the best commentary on and around the world...
Dig a little deeper into the survey numbers, however, and the cultural rifts that run through US society become apparent.
According to the Pew, 59% of "consistently conservative" respondents rated religious faith as the most important value to teach children, versus 11% of "consistently liberal" respondents. Obedience (15%) is the second-most common choice among conservatives.
For liberals qualities like empathy for others (34%), curiosity (23%) and tolerance (22%) were considered most important.
The split was also apparent when subjects were asked whether values were "especially important" or not. Among conservatives, 81% said that this described religious faith, while only 26% of liberals felt this way. 
As for tolerance, 88% of consistently liberal respondents said it was important, while only 41% of conservatives agreed.
There's also an interesting divergence in values when the responses are broken down by race. Blacks placed more importance on religious faith and obedience, for instance, while whites and Hispanics emphasised being responsible.
Pew interviewed 3,243 adults, 185 of whom were parents, in late April and May for the survey.
Parenting has become a major topic of conversation recently due to NFL star Adrian Peterson's indictment on child endangerment charges for disciplining one of his 4-year-old sons by hitting him with a stick. 
The magazine cites Marcel Fratzer, the head of the German Institute for Economic Research, who describes what he calls "the German illusion". In the last 20 years, the amount of Germany's economic output invested in infrastructure has declined from 25% to 19.7%.
Germany is either spending its money immediately or saving for future consumption, they say. It should be "invested in companies, education and infrastructure, so that it becomes the basis for future prosperity, technical progress and additional jobs". 
"Germany will only be able to maintain its position in the global economic competition if it once again focuses on its future," they conclude.
Based on the way humanitarian donations are earmarked for specific emergencies, he writes, "third-tier crises like those in Chad often don't get any direct funding".
He says that "less than 1%" of the US contribution to the World Food Programme is unearmarked, so it is not available to slow-burning trouble spots like Chad.
"This needs to change, but bureaucratic inertia is a major obstacle to improved response to these invisible crises," he concludes.
"It seems that the people of the 11th century had better management wisdom than the engineers of today with their straitjacketed mindset," he writes for the Hindu.
He says the government also needs to recognise the link between climate change and disasters and begin developing plans to cope.
"We see little progress in any of these directions," he writes.
This is a dangerous idea, write the editors of the Argentine daily newspaper Clarin (translated by WorldCrunch). The motives of proponents, they say, could be to escape political critics and not to boost the economy of the nation's interior or alleviate traffic issues in Buenos Aires.
"However attractive it may sound, the capital's transfer could quickly worsen the overall state of the country," they write. 
Have you found an interesting opinion piece about global issues that we missed? Share it with us via email at echochambers (at) bbc.co.uk.
