Trump executive order prompts Google to recall staff
Google has recalled travelling staff members to the US after an executive order from President Donald Trump restricting entry for nationals of seven Muslim-majority countries. 
Nationals of six further countries, including Iran and Iraq, will be banned from entering the US for 90 days 
The entire US refugee admissions programme is suspended for 120 days, and a lower cap on numbers introduced.
On Saturday several Iraqi passengers and a Yemeni national were prevented from boarding a flight at Cairo airport bound for New York, despite holding valid visas for the US.
Google has told the BBC it is concerned about the order and any measures which could block great talent from the US. 
The new restrictions will have a major impact on technology companies that hire skilled staff from all over the world on special H1-B visas.
There have been reports that "green card" holders, who are legal permanent residents of the US, being prevented from getting on flights. However, green cards are not specifically mentioned in the executive order, and so the status of green card holders remains unclear.
Mr Trump said the measures detailed in his executive order would "keep radical Islamic terrorists out of the US".
But rights groups say there is no link between Syrian refugees in the US and terrorism. 
Mr Trump signed the order on Friday, which was International Holocaust Remembrance Day. 
The sudden and severe immigration restrictions imposed on passport holders from seven Muslim countries could seriously demonstrate the law of unintended consequences.  The president wants to restrict some Muslims but the effect could be to damage America's most important and profitable sector: technology. 
Google has recalled around 100 of its affected staff from overseas. Microsoft has warned its shareholders that curbs on immigration could have a material impact on its business. 
The technology sector relies heavily on highly skilled and well-paid workers from overseas on H1-B visas. If there's a risk, however small, that that brainpower could be restricted in some way or scare off others who may feel unwelcome, the big tech companies may have to rethink where they place their key staff in future.
Some Republicans have welcomed Mr Trump's announcement, including the Speaker of the House of Representatives, Paul Ryan, who said it was "time to re-evaluate and strengthen the visa vetting process". 
The new policy is also affecting visits from relatives.
Under Mr Trump's wide-ranging executive order, all refugee admissions have been suspended for four months.
The text of the order was released several hours after it was signed. Other measures include: 
The order also said all immigration programmes should include questions to "evaluate the applicant's likelihood of becoming a positively contributing member of society."
Other measures include a broad review of the information required from all countries to approve a visa; a review of visa schemes between nations to ensure they are "truly reciprocal" for US citizens; and the immediate suspension of the Visa Interview Waiver Programme.
But the document says exceptions could be made on a case-by-case basis.
During the election campaign, Mr Trump suggested a "total and complete shutdown of Muslims entering the United States until our country's representatives can figure out what is going on".
If you have any questions about the new vetting measures which President Trump has announced, send them to us and a BBC correspondent will answer the most popular.
Use this form to ask your question: 
