Philippines country profile
More than 7,000 islands make up the Philippines, but the bulk of its fast-growing population lives on just 11 of them. 
Much of the country is mountainous and prone to earthquakes and eruptions from around 20 active volcanoes. It is often buffeted by typhoons and other storms.
The Philippines - a Spanish colony for more than three centuries and named after a 16th century Spanish king - was taken over by the US in the early 20th century after a protracted rebellion against rule from Madrid. 
Spanish and US influences remain strong, especially in terms of language, religion and government. Self-rule in 1935 was followed by full independence in 1946 under a US-style constitution. 
The US is a close ally and has provided military aid to help combat Muslim and communist insurgencies.
President: Rodrigo Duterte
Firebrand former mayor Rodrigo Duterte came to power in a landslide victory in 2016 after winning over voters with promises of a no-holds-barred campaign to take on crime, drugs and corruption.
His tough talking on the subjects - including a pledge to have thousands of offenders killed - scandalised the political establishment, but proved popular with Filipinos tired of the status quo.
In his first year in office, he launched a controversial anti-drugs campaign with a call to citizens and the police to conduct extra-judicial killings of suspects; thousands are thought to have died since.
Mr Duterte, who denies running vigilante death squads during his 22 years as mayor of Davao City, told the BBC in October 2016 that he had himself shot dead three men during that time, although a spokesman later said this was not to be taken literally.
The new president has also suggested he wants to court China, at the expense of the Philippines' traditionally close ties to the US.
Powerful commercial interests control or influence much of the media.
The lively TV scene is dominated by free-to-air networks ABS-CBN and GMA. Some Manila-based networks broadcast in local languages. Cable TV has extensive reach.
Films, comedies and entertainment shows attract the largest audiences.
There are more than 600 radio stations. With around 100 outlets, Manila Broadcasting Company is the largest network.
The private press is vigorous, comprising some 500 newspaper titles. The most popular are Filipino-language tabloids, which can be prone to sensationalism.
