'Potential' to tackle rugby concussion with headgear
There is "potential" to reduce concussion in rugby by introducing new protective headgear, an expert has said. 
Dr Peter Theobald said it could be used in rugby but it may change the game. 
World Rugby said it "welcomes any commitment to research and development in the area of player welfare".
"So long as we are upfront about the caveats, certainly potential [to introduce anti-concussion headgear] seems to exist within rugby," said Dr Theobald, a senior lecturer in biomechanical engineering who leads the Cardiff University team. 
"However, we need to be aware of the consequence that an introduction of new protective equipment has [had in other sports] - that is that it can change behaviour to reflect this new level or perceived invincibility or certainly increased level of perceived protection. 
"Given the increased concussion rate within the sport, however, it would be remiss of us to not consider whether our technology can provide greater player protection."
The university's School of Engineering has been working with its partners to develop an energy-absorbing material known as C3, which was created in collaboration with the University of Cambridge.
It was one of five teams that won initial funding as part of an NFL initiative to tackle concussion in American football.  They are waiting to hear if they have won the $500,000 (£400,000) first prize, which also comes with the commercial expertise of the multi-national sponsors.  
In 2016, the US supreme court upheld a $1bn (£700m) settlement between the NFL and retired players who had suffered brain damage as a result of concussions.
However, concussion in rugby continues to hit the headlines. 
Rugby laws currently allow players to wear only scrumcaps, which protect against cuts and some blood injuries but not concussion. 
Dr Theobald said: "We need to make sure that we, as academics, contribute ideas in terms of technology but it's down to the higher powers within the sport to appreciate whether this represents a good opportunity or not."
He said that, while the researchers might have "something new" which may protect against fractures and abrasions, it was "hard to see" how any headgear could entirely protect against the causes of concussion.
"The reason being that concussion is not caused by the blow to the head at that particular point. It's caused by the deceleration, acceleration and rotation of the brain - the 'sponge in the bucket effect'," he said. 
And he agreed that headgear can increase the sense of invulnerability among some players, with previous World Rugby studies having shown this to be the case. 
"What they found was that probably headgear gives people a false sense of security and they probably went in that little bit harder because they felt protected," Dr O'Driscoll said.
World Rugby said it annually commissions and funds research projects in line with its "objective of continual evidence-based advances".
A spokesman said headgear in rugby had "never been presented as a means to reduce the risk of concussion, as the evidence does not yet conclusively say that a headgear can achieve that objective, without the use of hard materials".
"We are currently focused on the area of prevention via education and on-field management and the recent law application guideline regarding the tackle was introduced after an unprecedented analysis of 600 head injuries from more than 1,500 elite matches," he added.
