Gender imbalance 'greater' in Highlands and Islands
An imbalance between women and men in jobs is "more pronounced" in the Highlands and Islands than across Scotland as a whole, says a new report.
The research has also suggested that the types of employment "often reflected traditional views" of what was "women's work" and "men's work".
Another finding of the study for Highlands and Islands Enterprise (HIE) was that women earned less than men.
This gender pay gap was wider than the average for Scotland.
The research by ekosgen into occupational segregation examined the situation in Argyll, Moray, Highlands, Shetland, Orkney and the Western Isles. 
But the report has also flagged up issues for men. They were found to be attaining less higher level qualifications than women and were less likely to enter higher education.
The study has highlighted that employment rates for both men - 82.8% - and women - 75.3% - in the region exceeded the Scottish average.  
However, employment levels were found to be higher among men than women, and the difference was more marked than for Scotland as a whole.
More men were holding senior positions with employers and dominated "traditional male" roles in industries such as construction, transport, fishing and manufacturing. They were also more likely to be working in sectors that were growing.
Women were found to be in jobs in public administration, health and education, hotels and restaurants and other services.
The report also suggested:
The research said a range of factors were involved in creating the imbalance including "perpetuating stereotypes", "workplace practices and cultures" and "structural barriers such as availability of childcare".
A region-wide strategic approach to address the issue was needed, the report said.
Carroll Buxton, director of regional development at HIE, said: "There are numerous benefits to having an evenly-balanced workforce. 
"It supports men and women to fulfil their potential. It helps employers make better use of talent. And it provides the conditions to support more sustainable communities.
"It is therefore a key priority for us to promote the business benefits of a gender-balanced workforce. 
"To that end we must work with our partners in the public and private sectors to overcome the barriers and bring about equal participation by men and women across different job types or grades."
