Here's a look at the political developments from the last couple of days that you may have missed.Coffee and doughnutsThe pair are smiling over doughnuts and coffee on a U.S. visit by Putin. The two are pictured on a visit to a gas station owned by a Russian oil company.Trump posted the image writing: "We should start an immediate investigation into @SenSchumer and his ties to Russia and Putin. A total hypocrite!"The New York Democrat, who has called for Attorney General Jeff Sessions to resign over his contact with the Russian ambassador, responded on Twitter, "Happily talk re: my contact w Mr. Putin & his associates, took place in '03 in full view of press & public under oath. Would you &your team?" Trump then turned his attention to U.S. Rep. Nancy Pelosi because of a photo reported by Politico where she is pictured at a table with Russian President Dmitry Medvedev, current Russian ambassador Sergey Kislyak and U.S. Rep. Steny Hoyer, D-Maryland.He wrote, "I hereby demand a second investigation, after Schumer, of Pelosi for her close ties to Russia, and lying about it."Pelosi, the House minority leader, has also called for Sessions to resign. Read: How Trump's Schumer tweet reflects his reading habits'A lot of expletives'The President was "hot" and exasperated Thursday night after Sessions' recusal, a source familiar with the situation said, and there were "a lot of expletives" when Trump returned from a day trip to Virginia.But the communications between key Trump aides and Moscow officials are just some of the Russia-induced headaches for Trump that are threatening to overshadow his political agenda.'Wires tapped'The missive was part one of a six-tweet tirade that began just after 6:30 a.m. No proof of any wiretapping of then candidate Trump was offered.A senior administration official in Washington said colleagues learned of the tweet storm about Obama only after Trump had sent them. They were not expecting the President to make any news Saturday before golfing.The official said they didn't believe Trump is trying to get ahead of any particular story that's about to come out, but rather that he was furious about how the Russia storyline is playing out.The official pointed to a story on the conservative website Breitbart News, which followed up on claims Obama worked to undermine Trump's presidential campaign and his administration.That story infuriated Trump, the official said.'Just nonsense'Several former senior US officials dismissed Trump's allegations, calling them false. "Just nonsense," said one former senior US intelligence official. Obama, through a spokesman, also rejected the claim that he ordered Trump's phones tapped.Read: How Congress responded to Trump's callU.S. Rep. Devin Nunes, R-California, chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, said the committee will investigate Russian actions during the presidential campaign, and will inquire into whether the government was conducting surveillance on any political campaign if the evidence warrants it.In an interview with CNN's Jake Tapper on "State of the Union" Sunday, Pelosi called Trump the "deflector-in-chief -- anything to change the subject."Rubio pointed out that the Senate Intelligence Committee is already in the process of reviewing Russia's meddling in the US elections last year and will eventually issue a public report.'She ain't got no legs'"Hello, my name's Jeff, Jeff Sessions," McKinnon's Sessions, dressed as Gump, said with a southern drawl while sitting on a park bench waiting for a bus. "I'm the attorney general of the whole United States."Sessions as Gump spoke with people sitting on the bench about what it was like being in the government and showed a photo of "best good friend" counselor to the president, Kellyanne Conway."She ain't got no legs," McKinnon as Sessions said showing a photo of Conway sitting in a crouched position on a couch in the Oval Office, which has gone viral. "We're about as close as peas and carrots. She's the best talker you've ever heard. They say she could sell stink to a skunk."There was a backlash to Richmond's comments which included support from an unlikely corner -- Chelsea Clinton, who tweeted that the remarks were despicable.Drumroll for the travel banTrump will be hoping the news agenda will clear for his updated executive order banning travel from certain Middle Eastern and African countries.The new version of his court-halted executive order that banned travelers from seven Muslim-majority countries from entering the US will exclude existing visa holders, sources familiar with the plan have told CNN.Trump was scheduled to sign the order last Wednesday but pushed it back after his joint address to Congress received overwhelmingly positive reviews."We want the (executive order) to have its own 'moment,' " a senior administration official told CNN last Tuesday.Stand by.Longer wait for visasUnder the current system, companies submitting applications for H-1B visas for potential employees can pay $1,225 extra to ensure they receive a response from the US Citizenship and Immigration Services  within 15 days, as opposed to the usual three to six months.  The suspension is effective April 3, and could last up to six months, according to USCIS.Read: What you need to know about H-1B visas