Sweden brings back military conscription amid Baltic tensions
The Swedish government has decided to reintroduce military conscription - a move backed by the country's MPs.
The decision means that 4,000 men and women will be called up for service from 1 January 2018, a defence ministry spokeswoman told the BBC.
They will be selected from about 13,000 young people born in 1999, who will be asked to undergo a military assessment, Marinette Nyh Radebo said.
Non-aligned Sweden is worried about Russia's Baltic military drills.
In September, a Swedish garrison was restored to Gotland, a big island lying between the Swedish mainland and the three ex-Soviet Baltic states.
"The Russian illegal annexation of Crimea [in 2014], the conflict in Ukraine and the increased military activity in our neighbourhood are some of the reasons," she said.
The 13,000 who undergo the military tests will be a mixture of volunteers and conscripts. "You are part of the conscript system once you've done the tests - men and women are treated equally," Ms Nyh Radebo said.
"The authorities choose the ones who are willing, interested and motivated."
Russian menace pushes Sweden towards Nato
Norway breaks tradition to host US troops
Baltic warning of Russian test for Nato
Poland to sign up 35,000 paramilitaries
The conscripts will serve for nine to 12 months. The aim is to encourage them either to become military professionals or, later, to join the reserves.
"If we want full and trained military units, the voluntary system needs to be complemented by compulsory military service," Defence Minister Peter Hultqvist told Swedish public broadcaster SVT.
Sweden had military conscription until 2010, but previously only men were drafted. 
Ms Nyh Radebo said that "70% of parliament is behind the decision to strengthen the military and co-operation with the countries around us".
The closest co-operation is with Finland, she added. 
Sweden and Finland are not in Nato, but co-operate closely with the alliance. Their Nordic neighbours Norway and Denmark are in Nato. 
The Swedish recruitment system will be modelled on Norway's, Ms Nyh Radebo said.
It details a range of measures to boost Swedish military capabilities, citing "the deteriorating security situation in Europe, particularly in light of the Russian aggression against Ukraine". Deeper defence co-operation with Finland is "critical", it says.
During the Cold War, national service meant that West Germany could mobilise 495,000 soldiers and boost the numbers to about 1.2 million if necessary with reservists.
