Obituary: Hezbollah military commander Mustafa Badreddine
Mustafa Amine Badreddine, who has been killed in Syria, was a top Hezbollah military commander.
He was killed by jihadist artillery fire on a Hezbollah base near Damascus airport, the group said.
Thousands of Hezbollah members are fighting alongside Syrian government forces on battlefields across the country and hundreds have been killed.
Badreddine, known for his expertise in explosives, reportedly sat on Hezbollah's Shura Council and served as an adviser to the group's secretary-general, Hassan Nasrallah, accompanying him on visits to Damascus.
Little is known about Badreddine's early years, but Hezbollah said he had taken part in operations by its military wing, the Islamic Resistance, since 1982.
They are alleged to have worked together on the October 1983 bombing of the US Marine Corps and French army barracks in Beirut that killed 305 people.
The following year, a court in Kuwait sentenced a 23-year-old man named Elias Fouad Saab to death after convicting him in connection with the December 1983 suicide car bomb attacks on the US and French embassies there, which were blamed on Hezbollah.
He is also alleged to have taken "overall control" of the suicide car bomb attack that killed Rafik Hariri and 21 others in Beirut in February 2005. 
Badreddine is alleged to have issued the final authorisation for the attack just under an hour before it happened, having earlier spoken by phone with Mughniyeh.
The prosecutors said Badreddine achieved this by using pseudonyms, as he appeared to do in Kuwait. While planning the bombing, they alleged, he presented himself as Sami Issa - the registered owner of three jewellery shops, an apartment in Jounieh and a motor boat, who said he was from a Christian village.
Hezbollah has denied any involvement in the Hariri assassination.
His death was initially blamed on Israel, Hezbollah's chief enemy.
But Hezbollah later said its commander had been killed in a bombardment carried out by Sunni extremists. It has not named any of the groups.
Update 23 May, 2016: The death toll in the 1983 Beirut bombings has been amended to include all the fatalities. 
