Welsh language education key to target, Plaid Cymru says
The teaching of Welsh needs to be boosted to help reach the government's target of one million Welsh speakers by 2050, Plaid Cymru has said.
The party wants more funding found to ensure more teachers and assistants can use the language in the classroom.
Shadow Education Secretary Llyr Gruffydd claimed the number of children being taught in Welsh was "flatlining".
His minister for the Welsh language, Alun Davies, described it as "deliberately ambitious". 
"Over the past four years we've seen the number of pupils receiving Welsh medium education flatlining," Mr Gruffydd told BBC Wales ahead of the debate. 
"I think there's been a small increase of 0.01%.
"If we want to see a situation where all children in Wales receive their education through the medium of Welsh, it will take 800 years to achieve at this current rate."   
In the motion for debate, Plaid called for a "clear timetable" for a new GCSE to replace the one for Welsh as a second language.
Mr Davies told AMs that education in Wales was being reformed, saying that from 2021 the new curriculum would remove the distinction between Welsh and Welsh as a second language.
Suzy Davies, Welsh Conservative spokeswoman on the Welsh language, said there should be more focus on Welsh "outside the classroom", saying: "This is where the language really lives.
"By including small bits of Welsh into everyday life, we can help grow the language from a grassroots level so that our pupils walk out of the school gates and into communities where they can use both their languages," she added.
Meanwhile the Welsh language commissioner has said ministers should intervene to ensure local councils respond to demand for Welsh-medium education in their areas. 
Plaid Cymru's call that all pupils follow one Welsh GCSE qualification by 2018 would need a far greater emphasis on the subject in English-medium secondary schools.
The party says Welsh should be a core subject in all schools, not just Welsh-medium schools, as is the case now. That would mean more time on the curriculum for Welsh at the expense of other subjects such as English, maths and science.
Plaid Cymru wants to "invest substantially, and seriously plan, through a series of innovative initiatives, in order to quickly increase the number of education practitioners who teach through the medium of Welsh". 
However, if they want a new GCSE qualification to be taught in two years' time it will be difficult to recruit and train the additional teachers needed to deliver the course.
