LGBTI education call at Pride Glasgow parade and festival
This year's Pride Glasgow festival has featured a campaign calling for schools to introduce mandatory teaching of LGBTI issues.
Organisers think schools could play a big part in tackling discrimination and bullying.  
Several speakers addressed a rally before the parade set off from Glasgow Green.
The theme was Be Yourself, with participants encouraged to wear whatever they wanted.
Section 28 was repealed 15 years ago, but campaigners claim there is still not enough being done in schools to highlight issues that affect the LGBTI community.
Jordan Daly from the Time for Inclusive Education campaign told BBC Scotland: "I think it is quite important that as much as pride is a celebration of the contribution of the LGBTI community to our history, society, culture and literature, it's also a lot more than that. 
"Pride is historically a protest. It's a movement for change and I think that one of the biggest risks that we have here in Scotland in particular is that we all fall into a certain trap of complacency and think that LGBTI rights are there now that we have marriage equality.
"One of the key things that we have always spoken about throughout this campaign is that after marriage equality there is not a full stop, but a comma for the advancement of LGBTI rights, and we believe that the next big domino that has to topple is the education system."
The Scottish government is considering updating gender recognition legislation law to bring it in line with the international best practice for people who are transgender or intersex. 
Equalities Secretary Angela Constance, who spoke at the event, said: "Pride Glasgow is an opportunity to celebrate LGBTI communities and to present a unified front by standing and marching together against hate crime.
"Showing this solidarity is even more important in the wake of recent atrocities in Orlando and the persecution LGBTI people in other parts of the world face on a daily basis."
Director of the Equality Network Tim Hopkins said: "The event today is themed around the vital importance of making our education system LGBTI-inclusive, to address prejudice and ensure that LGBTI young people know that their identity is fully respected and valued.
"We also very much welcome the Scottish government's commitment to bring our gender recognition law up to international best practice, and we look forward to helping the government ensure that Scotland retains its place amongst Europe's leaders on legal equality for LGBTI people."
