The Papers
The Sunday Times leads with a story about alleged rape victims no longer having to face cross-examination live in court. 
The Justice Secretary Liz Truss has told the paper she intends to bring forward plans which will allow victims in England and Wales  to give evidence in a pre-recorded video that will be played to the jury once the trial begins. 
She says the decision follows a trial in three cities, which found defendants were more likely to plead guilty when they were confronted with the strength of evidence against them before the trial.
For the second consecutive day, most of the front pages feature images of the Duchess of Cambridge during her visit to Paris. Some even find space to picture her husband who's accompanying her on the trip. 
Alongside a description of the gun attack, the paper finds space to honour what it calls the fashion diplomacy of the duchess. 
It details the stylish Chanel dress she wore during the day - it was, says the paper, "the only choice, for her first official visit to Paris". 
The Sunday Times says Prince William and Catherine "shrugged off" the terror attack with "offensive de charme" -  swiftly reverting back to their original mission, "aimed at countering the tensions caused by Britain's decision to leave the EU". 
But while the duchess wins universal praise for her performance in Paris, the duke is still facing criticism for his decision to miss a Commonwealth Day event shortly before the trip, in favour of a lads-only skiing holiday.  
The Mail on Sunday says the "courteous", "graceful" and "always smiling" duchess showed her "sheepish" husband how to behave "like a real royal". 
He is now "at a crossroads", Mr Jobson writes, and has to decide between "disco" and "duty".
The paper says it has obtained a tape that suggests a hard-left plot by supporters of Jeremy Corbyn to consolidate their power within the party. 
The recording is of Jon Lansman, the founder of the grassroots movement Momentum, which helped Mr Corbyn secure the Labour leadership. 
In it, says the paper, he can be heard outlining a plan for the organisation to formally join forces with the Unite trade union. 
The deputy leader of the party Tom Watson tells the paper such "entryism" poses a "real threat" to the party.
More troubles on the opposition benches could help the majority party make a big decision about their future too. 
The paper reports that although the prime minister has repeatedly ruled out a vote, prominent figures in the Conservative Party have been widely discussing the advantages of holding a ballot in the next few months.
Party insiders tell the paper that increasing the party's narrow majority is beginning to look like an attractive prospect - solving a host of problems, including the matter of a Scottish referendum. 
But not everyone is as supportive of the prime minister.
Writing in the paper, former Education Secretary Nicky Morgan, her former Labour shadow Lucy Powell and ex-Liberal Democrat Leader Nick Clegg condemn the plans as damaging to social mobility and ideologically driven.
In what it calls a highly provocative interview, Prof Wendy Savage tells the paper that the law banning terminations based on the sex of the unborn child should be scrapped. 
The Mail says pro-life campaigners have "slammed her demands as utterly abhorrent".
The paper says new documents have come to light concerning the use of Primodos in the 1960s and 1970s, which suggest more was known about its effects than has previously been acknowledged.
The Sunday Times says there was a delay of eight years between the first emergence of potential risks and mothers being warned. 
The paper thinks the government and the makers of the drug are facing legal action for tens of millions of pounds in the case, which has echoes of the Thalidomide scandal.
In an interview with the paper, the former forces sweetheart describes how she risked her life by travelling into the Burmese jungle to do her bit by entertaining the troops .
"I just knew I had to do it" she tells the paper.  
The Council of Europe has identified an unlikely victim of ethnic oppression at the hands of the UK government. 
Ministers are accused of not doing enough to support the Cornish language or protect landmarks such as Tintagel Castle, which the council says is at risk of "Disneyfication". 
