SECRETARY OF STATEDemocrats have been critical of Trump's choice because of the former ExxonMobil head's alleged close ties to Russia. Tillerson received full support from the Republicans in the Senate and backing from four Democrats. EDUCATIONBetsy DeVos is looking to be confirmed as education secretary in the coming days, and White House press secretary Sean Spicer said Wednesday he was "100%" confident that will happen. Now, the White House and congressional leadership need 50 votes for DeVos and have Vice President Mike Pence break the tie in the final tally. ENERGY"If Scott Pruitt is serious about serving as our next EPA Administrator, he should be more than willing to provde @EPWDems complete answers," Democratic Sen. Tom Carper tweeted. But Republicans argued the move was not about the nominee and position, but instead a jab of partisan politics intended to slow the confirmation process."Not having a vote on this nominee today, not organizing this important committee, is a shame," Wyoming Republican Sen. John Barrasso, chairman of the committee, said before adjourning."Temper tantrums waste a lot of energy but they don't accomplish anything," Sen. Dan Sullivan of Alaska said. FINANCEFor the second day in a row, Senate Democrats didn't show up to the meeting. Committee Chairman Sen. Orrin Hatch called it "extraordinary circumstances" and gave room for the Senate GOP in attendance to vote on suspending the rules of the committee.  The 14 Republicans voted to move both Steve Mnuchin and Rep. Tom Price, the respective nominees to lead the Treasury and Health and Human Services departments, to the full Senate for a vote. "Today, for the first time in history, the Senate Finance Committee broke the rules to push through on a partisan basis two nominees," Sen. Ron Wyden, D-Oregon, said in a statement. "Congressman Tom Price, whose stock trades call into question whether he will work in the public interest or his own, and the other, Steven Mnuchin, who appears to have misled the committee on his company's foreclosure practices after the Great Recession."JUDICIARYEleven Republicans voted for Sessions, while nine Democrats voted against him.The vote was initially planned for Tuesday, but on Wednesday, senators continued to voice their opposition. "We have an important job to do here and it's important that we understand the nominee's record accurately -- it's not our job to shade the record," Sen. Al Franken, D-Minnesota, said about Texas Republican Sen. Ted Cruz's representation of Sessions from a previous hearing. The vote to confirm Sessions could be as early as next week. SCOTUS CONFIRMATIONTrump has advised Republicans to "go nuclear" if Democrats attempt to filibuster his Supreme Court nomination of Neil Gorsuch.Gorusch met with Pence and Republican leaders on Capitol Hill Wednesday morning.  "If we end up with that gridlock, I would say, 'If you can, Mitch, go nuclear,' " Trump said of Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell. "That would be an absolute shame if a man of this quality was caught up in the web."The "nuclear option" would change the process of confirming Supreme Court nominees down the road, and involves removing the requirement for 60 votes to break a filibuster. Trump nominated Gorsuch to replace late Justice Antonin Scalia on Tuesday night, and Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman Chuck Grassley told CNN he plans to have the confirmation hearing in six weeks. CNN's Jeremy Diamond, Manu Raju, Laura Jarrett, Dan Merica, Ashley Killough, Phil Mattingly, Tom LoBianco Ted Barrett and MJ Lee contributed to this report. 