Prince William begins agriculture course at Cambridge
The Duke of Cambridge has started full-time studies on an agriculture course at the University of Cambridge.
Prince William arrived at Cambridge by public transport on the 09:44 service from London King's Cross.
The prince will take a 10-week course in agricultural management, organised by the university's Programme for Sustainability Leadership.
The course is designed to help him for the time when he inherits the Duchy of Cornwall estate from his father.
The duke is expected to make the 46-minute train journey several days a week but also has the option of overnight accommodation in Cambridge.
He was greeted at St John's College, where some of his tutorials will take place, by vice-chancellor Sir Leszek Borysiewicz, along with Master of St John's, Prof Christopher Dobson, and Polly Courtice, director of the Programme for Sustainability Leadership..
William toured the college's grounds, where he stopped to look at a plaque marking the Queen's visit there in April 2011.
The course, which ends in March, has been designed specifically for the duke but he will study alongside PhD students in some classes.
He will have 20 hours of teaching time each week, including work in small groups as well as one-to-one tuition and his own additional reading. He will also go on a series of field trips.
William will be taught by academics specialising in geography, land economy and plant sciences.
He is expected to study subjects including rural and planning policy, farming and supply chains, site management, agricultural policy and conservation governance.
The cost of the course is being met privately.
Kensington Palace said the duke was considering a number of options for public service following the end of his service as an RAF search and rescue helicopter pilot in Anglesey.
The Duchy of Cornwall is the portfolio of land, property and investments that the duke will take over when the Prince of Wales becomes king.
The duke graduated from the University of St Andrews in 2005 with a class 2:1 degree in geography, and it was as an undergraduate that he met his future wife Catherine. He then spent more than seven years in the military.
The Duke and Duchess of Cambridge are set to visit New Zealand and Australia in April and are expected to be accompanied by their baby son, Prince George.
