Turkey profile - Timeline
A chronology of key events:
Europe meets Asia in Turkey's largest city
Multi-ethnic state lasted more than 600 years
Empire of the Ottomans
BBC: Ottoman Empire (1301-1922)
Kurdistan Workers' Party launches separatist guerrilla war in southeast.
Founder of the Turkish republic
BBC History
Pro-Islamist Welfare Party wins elections but lacks support to form government - two major centre-right parties form anti-Islamist coalition.
Turkey enters EU customs union.
Kurdistan Workers' Party leader Abdullah Ocalan is serving a life sentence
Kurdish leaders charged in Turkey
The PKK - Kurdistan Workers Party - is a rebel group fighting for an independent Kurdish state within Turkey
Parliament decides not to allow deployment of US forces ahead of war in Iraq but allows US use of Turkish air space. It authorises dispatch of Turkish forces into Kurdish areas of northern Iraq.
Murder of journalist Hrant Dink shocked Turkey
Turkish-Armenian writer shunned silence
Ruling AK Party puts forward Foreign Minister Abdullah Gul as its candidate after Mr Erdogan decides not to stand. He narrowly fails to win in the first round.
The headscarf issue divides religious and secularist Turks
Headscarf issue challenges Turkey
Why Muslim women wear the veil
Quiet end to Turkey's college headscarf ban
Turkey and Armenia began edging towards a restoration of ties in 2009
Turkey, Armenia split on new ties
Hundreds of army officers have been tried in connection with alleged coup plots, in what is seen as a blow to the military's power
Thousands of refugees fleeing unrest in Syria stream into Turkey. Ankara demands reform in Syria.
Anger at plans to redevelop an Istanbul park spilled over into protests against perceived government authoritarianism in mid-2013
Ceasefire with the Kurdish rebel PKK - declared by jailed PKK leader Abdullah Ocalan in 2013 - finally crumbles under the weight of tensions aggravated by the Syrian civil war and the role of both Turkey and the Kurds in the war. Kurdish insurgency erupts once more.
Turkey shoots down a Russian military jet on Syria bombing mission. Russia, Turkey's second-largest trading partner, imposes economic sanctions.
European Union strikes a deal whereby Turkey restricts flow of migrants into Europe, in return for €3bn ($3.17bn) and concessions on stalled EU accession talks.
Suicide car-bomb attack in Ankara kills 37 people. TAK again claims responsibility.
President Erdogan says that deal on restriction of flow of migrants into Europe - largely negotiated by Mr Davutoglu - could collapse if Turks are not granted visa-free access to the EU.
A gun and suicide attack on Istanbul's Ataturk airport kills 42 people, including 13 foreign nationals. Turkish authorities believe the attack bears the hallmarks of so-called Islamic State.
The government also shuts down dozens of media outlets - including 16 TV channels - during a continuing crackdown in the wake of the failed coup attempt.
