Afghanistan profile - Timeline
A chronology of key events: 
Hamid Karzai is sworn in as head of an interim power-sharing government.
An Al-Qaeda double agent kills seven CIA agents in a suicide attack on a US base in Khost.
General David Petraeus takes command of US, ISAF forces. 
Karzai says private security firms - accused of operating with impunity - must cease operations. He subsequently waters down the decree. 
Some 500 mostly Taliban prisoners break out of prison in Kandahar. 
Pakistan and the Taleban boycott the scheduled Bonn Conference on Afghanistan. Pakistan refuses to attend after a Nato air strike killed Pakistani soldiers on the Afghan border.
New French President Francois Hollande says France will withdraw its combat mission by the end of 2012 - a year earlier than planned. 
Arsala Rahmani of the High Peace Council is shot dead in Kabul. A former Taliban minister, he was crucial in reaching out to rebel commanders. The Taliban deny responsibility.
The US also suspends training new police recruits in order to carry out checks on possible ties to Taliban following series of attacks on foreign troops by apparent police and Afghan soldiers.
President Karzai suspends security talks with the US after Washington announces it plans to hold direct talks with the Taliban. Afghanistan insists on conducting the talks with the Taliban in Qatar itself.
Opium poppy cultivation in Afghanistan reaches an all-time high, according to a US report
Islamic State (IS) group emerges in eastern Afghanistan and within a few months captures a large swathe of Taliban-controlled areas in Nangarhar province.
The lynching of a woman wrongly accused of burning a Koran in Kabul provokes widespread revulsion and criticism of hard-line clerics. Police face accusations of doing too little to save her. The incident leads to widespread protests against the treatment of women. Four men are later convicted of murder.
Heavy US air strikes reverse Islamic State's gains in the east, and the group is cornered in a few districts in Nangarhar.
