A question of faith: Can politics and religion mix in Northern Ireland?
Issues of morality and questions of faith have been writ large on Northern Ireland's politics lately.
Now a BBC poll of MLAs has looked at how many MLAs are religious and how many do not profess any faith.
All 108 MLAs were asked if they were a person of faith, regardless of denomination.
Of those who answered the question, 62 said they did have faith. Seven said they did not.
The DUP MLA Jimmy Spratt said his religion is much more than a personal belief.
His faith, often through prayer, offers regular, practical guidance, he said.
"I would pray before I have to make some very serious decision or some decision that affects some individual," he said.
"I think God will put things in your way or he will perhaps prevent you from doing something.
"I'm not saying that you hear a voice but you certainly feel guided."
Of the seven who said they did not profess any religious faith, six asked to remain anonymous, while only one agreed to speak to the BBC about it.
Anna Lo, a humanist and Alliance MLA, said she was not surprised to be the assembly member willing to talk publicly on the issue of faith.
"I think in Northern Ireland so many of our politicians use their faith as almost attraction for voters," Ms Lo said.
"What I want to see is policy making based on evidence. Scientific evidence, medical evidence, social science evidence, not on the Bible."
Ulster Unionist leader Mike Nesbitt described himself as a "struggling Christian", that struggle being most pronounced on issues, like gay marriage, that test his faith.
But he said he believes it is his responsibility as an elected politician to bring his religious values to the decisions he takes in the assembly, even if they sometimes risk going against public opinion.
"I think it's very important for me to be consistent to the values that I hold," he said.
"On occasion that will mean I'm in tune with the majority of public opinion, and at times it means you'd be going against it."
And he said he was not surprised that non-religious MLAs were less keen to speak about their beliefs.
"Such is the force of religion in this country that it is probably something that would get a disproportionately negative reaction."
Prof John Brewer, of Queen's University, studies the relationship between religion and society in Northern Ireland.
"Because so many people still identify with a church, describe themselves as religious, and indeed still practice although practice has declined, it's taking a large risk for the secular politician to be open in declaring their secularism," Prof Brewer said.
"It's just too risky."
Still, around 83% of people say they do identify themselves as religious.
So, the vast majority of people profess some form of religious faith, even if they do not attend church or follow a particular religion.
The former priest and public figure Denis Bradley says religion can play a positive role in government, but he is concerned that some MLAs feel they cannot speak openly about not believing in God.
"Truthfulness is a mark of good religion," Mr Bradley said.
"It's also a mark of good politics, and I think it's disappointing if we have politicians who don't feel free because they think there is a religious monster out there which eats your votes up if you're honest."
SDLP MLA John Dallat said he is a man of faith but he does not make decisions based on his beliefs.
"My faith is a very personal thing. It's something I don't normally share with anyone," he said.
"I would tend to leave it at the door and depend on my judgement as a person whether something is right or wrong.
"I think that's something that people with no faith and no religion have to do every day."
But for some, even asking a politician about their religious stance is controversial.
The assembly speaker and Sinn Féin MLA Mitchel McLaughlin does not think it is necessarily appropriate for politicians to speak publicly about their beliefs, regardless of what they might be.
"Politicians are always conscious of the fact they represent people of different political perspectives.
"If they get tempted into declaring a particular religious perspective or the absence of one then they also run the risk of running foul or offending those within their constituencies.
"I absolutely understand why some people are reluctant to discuss that.
"Not that they're ashamed of their positions but they're elected representatives of a very diverse community."
