"We must," he said, "screen out any who have hostile attitudes towards our country or its principles."Exactly.Trump meant this as part of his "extreme vetting" plan to keep the wrong people from immigrating to America. But the idea makes even more sense when screening the candidates for the presidency. And unfortunately for Trump, this screening tool wouldn't do anything for his chances.The Republican nominee is right that those coming into America should "embrace a tolerant American society." And he is correct when he argues that people "who do not believe in our constitution, or who support bigotry and hatred" should have no place in this country.The question is, does he subscribe to these principles himself?If immigrants should "believe in our constitution," the commander-in-chief most certainly ought to. But the evidence so far suggests that Trump only has a vague grasp of that document. And you don't have to take Democrats' word for it -- Trump's own words speak volumes.Freedom of religionHe has since tried to tweak this plan, but the willingness to enact a religious test stands in direct contradiction with the constitution, and has also been sharply rejected by conservative scholars and activists.Freedom of the pressThe Fifth Amendment and due process Trump has no trouble at all with authoritarian leaders. For example, he sounded sympathetic to at least some aspects of former Iraqi dictator Saddam Hussein's leadership, admitting that he is a "bad guy," but apparently one with some redeeming traits. Separation of powersEqual rights for allIn his Youngstown speech, Trump vowed that his immigration policy would defend American values. "Nor can we let the hateful ideology of radical Islam -- its oppression of women, gays, children, and nonbelievers -- be allowed to reside or spread within our own countries," he said.Yes, Trump did a good job in his speech this week of distilling some of the most important elements of America's values -- a rejection of bigotry, equal treatment for all citizens, freedom from oppression, and a clear rejection of hatred for members of minorities. The problem is that time and again, Trump has turned his back on many of these very same principles -- and encouraged his followers to do the same.Still, Trump has done voters a huge favor. He has reminded America what it stands for, and provided a template for deciding which candidate is more likely to embrace these fine principles. The trouble for Trump is that he is clearly not that candidate.