What Trump team has said about Islam
Does Donald Trump believe Islam is a religion?
"It's not a discussion about Islam as a religion or not a religion," he replied. "It's about radical Islamic terrorism. We are prepared to be honest about the threat. We're not going to white it out, delete it as the Obama administration did."
But is it a religion?
"I think you should ask him that question," Gorka continued. "But I would say that's really a misreading of everything he's said over the last 18 months."
A closer look at Mr Trump's comments over the last year and a half only complicates the matter, however - as do the views of the advisers closest to the new president.
Mr Trump has repeatedly warned of the dangers of "radical Islamic terrorism" - a line viewed as a direct rebuke of Barack Obama, who while president had pointedly refused to use the term.
He slammed Mr Obama and Hillary Clinton for being "founders" of the so-called Islamic State. He publicly feuded with the parents of a Muslim US soldier killed in Iraq. He has, at times, advocated a temporary ban on Muslims entering the US and instituted a "watch list" for those already in the US. 
These policies and actions, critics say, reveal an anti-Islamic animus that lies at the heart of Mr Trump's politics.
At times Mr Trump did little to dispel this conclusion.
"I think Islam hates us," he said during an interview in March 2016.
At other moments, he struck a more measured tone, drawing a distinction between the more than 1.6 billion who follow the Islamic faith and the smaller subset of "bad and dangerous people" who happen to be Muslims.
"I love the Muslims," Mr Trump said in September 2015. "I think they're great people."
If a presidential administration is a reflection of the man who sits in the Oval Office, it shouldn't be any surprise that Mr Trump's conflicted views about Muslims are also on display in the team of senior advisers that surround him.
In one camp are the more outspoken of Mr Trump's advisers, who echo the president's most bellicose anti-Muslim rhetoric.
They include National Security Advisor Michael Flynn, senior adviser Steve Bannon and attorney general nominee Jeff Sessions.
A slightly narrower view has been advanced by Mr Sessions, considered the architect of Mr Trump's immigration policies.
He noted during his confirmation hearings that he had fought alongside Muslim US soldiers.
White House chief of staff Reince Priebus, viewed as Bannon's chief rival among presidential advisers, has said there will be no Muslim registry - and taken a softer tone in general.
The debate over the Trump White House's attitude toward Muslims is more than merely academic. In their lawsuits challenging the legality of the president's order suspending refugee resettlement and immigration from seven predominantly Muslim countries, Mr Trump's opponents have pointed to his bellicose rhetoric and that of his staff as evidence that the policy was unconstitutionally directed at Muslims. 
Past presidents have gone out of their way to say their issues are not with the Islamic faith - if only to serve as a public counterbalance to their use of US military power in or against Muslim nations. 
He would later launch invasions of Muslim countries Afghanistan and Iraq.
In 2016 he ordered more than 26,000 bombs dropped on Muslim nations like Syria, Iraq, Afghanistan, Libya, Yemen, Somalia and Pakistan.
Mr Trump doesn't have the luxury of the same rhetorical cover his predecessors enjoyed. His actions as president will be coloured by his past statements and those of his advisers. 
The furious reaction to his immigration order is one such example - and it almost certainly won't be the last. 
