Trump travel ban: States urge retention of temporary block
Restoring President Donald Trump's ban on immigrants from seven mainly Muslim countries would "unleash chaos again", lawyers for two US states argue.
Counsel for Washington and Minnesota urged a federal appeals court in San Francisco to maintain its nationwide temporary restraining order.
They are being backed by technology firms which say the travel ban is harmful to their businesses.
Trump administration lawyers are expected to respond later on Monday.
Friday's restraining order has led to a furious response from Mr Trump, who claims national security is at risk.
It caused confusion at US and foreign airports when it came into force, and was widely condemned, although polls suggest that US public opinion is sharply divided on the policy.
On Friday the order was suspended by a federal judge in Seattle, James Robart, after the states of Washington and Minnesota took legal action against the travel ban on the grounds that it was unconstitutional and harmful to their interests. 
As a result of the suspension, visa holders from the seven mainly Muslim countries will be allowed to enter the US until the full case has been heard. The state department has been reversing visa cancellations, and US homeland security employees have been told by their department to comply with the ruling.
Many visa-holders have scrambled to get on flights to the US, fearing the window for entry may close. 
At the weekend, the appeals court in San Francisco turned down a Department of Justice request to set aside the restraining order. 
But the court did not agree, leading to a full case hearing and Monday's legal submissions.
Washington and Minnesota argue that as well as being unconstitutional, the travel ban is harmful to their residents, businesses and universities.
They added: "Defendants now ask this court to unleash chaos again by staying the district court order. The court should decline."
President Trump has attacked the federal judge in Seattle who originally blocked his travel ban and the judiciary in general, saying Americans should blame the courts "if something happens".
Mr Trump also said he had instructed border officials to carry out rigorous checks. 
"Just cannot believe a judge would put our country in such peril. If something happens blame him and court system. People pouring in. Bad!"
Democrats and some Republicans have criticised Mr Trump's comments about the judiciary.
Democratic Senator Patrick Leahy, a member of the Senate Judiciary Committee, said Mr Trump seemed "intent on precipitating a constitutional crisis".
Meanwhile, Republican Senate leader Mitch McConnell told CNN it was "best to avoid criticising judges individually".
Judge Robart, who was nominated by Republican President George W Bush, has served on the federal bench since 2004.
All persons arriving at a US port of entry are inspected by Customs and Border Protection (CBP) officers. 
Visitors must either have valid US visas, or hold "Green Cards" that authorise them to live and work in the US permanently, or have applied for authorisation under the Visa Waiver Program via ESTA (the Electronic System for Travel Authorization) before their visit. Travellers from certain countries can use Automated Passport Control (APC).
All visitors must complete declaration forms. They may also have their fingerprints and photos taken, as CBP uses biometric technologies to verify travellers' identities.
CBP officers may also ask to inspect luggage or personal items.
Please include a contact number if you are willing to speak to a BBC journalist. You can also contact us in the following ways:
Or please use the form below:
If you are happy to be contacted by a BBC journalist please leave a telephone number that we can
                        contact you on. In some cases a selection of your comments will be published, displaying your name as
                        you provide it and location, unless you state otherwise. Your contact details will never be published.
                        When sending us pictures, video or eyewitness accounts at no time should you endanger yourself or others,
                        take any unnecessary risks or infringe any laws. Please ensure you have read the terms and conditions.
Terms and conditions
