Trump's executive order: Who does travel ban affect?
On 27 January President Donald Trump signed an executive order halting all refugee admissions and temporarily barring people from seven Muslim-majority countries.
The move sparked numerous protests and legal challenges. A week later a federal judge in Seattle suspended it nationwide, allowing banned visitors to travel to the US pending an appeal by the administration.
Mr Trump and his supporters say the controversial executive order makes good on election promises to "make America great again". 
But what is the order, dubbed the "Muslim ban" by those rallying against it, and who exactly does it affect?
Victims vent fury
World reaction
Order sows seeds of panic
All travellers who have nationality of Iran, Iraq, Libya, Somalia, Sudan, Syria and Yemen are not permitted to enter the US for 90 days, or be issued an immigrant or non-immigrant visa.
People who have dual nationality with a non-restricted country are not affected, so long as they travel on the passport from the other country.
Under the executive order, Green Card holders - permanent legal US residents - from the seven countries were initially subject to the same restrictions, causing widespread concern and confusion.
Mr Trump said the halt on the refugee programme was needed to give government agencies time to develop a stricter vetting system and ensure that visas were not issued to individuals posing a national security threat.
"To be clear, this is not a Muslim ban, as the media is falsely reporting," the president said in a statement released on Facebook.
"This is not about religion - this is about terror and keeping our country safe. There are over 40 different countries worldwide that are majority Muslim that are not affected by this order."
Mr Priebus said the seven countries had been included because Congress and the Obama administration had identified them as "the most watched countries harbouring terrorists". 
This is being hotly contested through the US court system, with dozens of lawsuits filed, and the issue thought likely to end up in the Supreme Court.
Key dates:
So, the exclusion of all Syrians would be enough to challenge Mr Trump in court. The fact that they are all Muslim countries lends weight to the critics's argument that the order is "anti-Muslim".
Supporters of Mr Trump's order mentioned the post-9/11 attacks and the ability of the administration to take measures to protect national security. 
They also suggested that US presidents can set aside the 1965 law. The most cited example is that of President Jimmy Carter who barred some Iranians during the 1980 hostage crisis. 
Rights groups say Mr Trump's order targeted Muslims because of their faith and that no refugees had been convicted of terrorism-related crimes.
They also said that the most recent attacks in the US were carried out by US nationals or citizens from the countries not included in the travel ban:
While announcing the plan, Mr Trump cited the attacks of 11 September 2001. But none of the 19 hijackers who committed the attacks came from countries included in the suspension. They were from Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates (UAE), Egypt and Lebanon.
Some pointed out that the list did not include countries where President Trump had business interests - like Saudi Arabia - a suggestion dismissed by the president's chief of staff as not related.
