Trump travel ban: Five questions about the revised executive order
President Donald Trump's second attempt to ban refugees and immigrants from several mostly Muslim countries from entering the US has - like his first - run into legal difficulties.
His first executive order, which sparked mass protests and confusion at airports, was halted by the courts in February.
Then just hours before a revised version was due to go into effect at midnight on 16 March, a judge in Hawaii suspended it nationwide. 
How is the second order different - and what happens next?
Previously, there was confusion about people from the seven countries who were also permanent legal US residents (green card holders), or who already had US visas or dual nationality. The new version makes it clear that visa and green card holders from the countries on the list - now six countries - will still be allowed entry, as will dual nationals travelling on a passport from a country not on the list.
Waivers can be granted on a case-by-case basis, if denying entry would "cause undue hardship", in cases such as:
The number of refugees for the year until October will be capped at 50,000, some 35,000 less than the previous 12 months.
The second executive order states that each of the six countries is either considered a state sponsor of terrorism by the US or "has been significantly compromised by terrorist organisations or contains active conflict zones". This "diminishes the foreign government's willingness or ability to share or validate important information about individuals seeking to travel to the United States," the order says. 
Critics have noted that major attacks such as the 9/11 New York attacks, the Boston marathon bombing and the Orlando nightclub attack were carried out by people from countries not on the list, such as Saudi Arabia, Egypt and Kyrgyzstan, or by US-born attackers. 
Judges who first suspended - and then upheld the suspension - of the first order cited several concerns:
The second order allowed a 10-day lead-in time before it was due to come into effect, in an attempt to avoid the confusion and uncertainty caused by the immediate implementation of the first, where scores of people were detained at airports or in transit. 
But nevertheless, a judge in Hawaii still suspended the revised order. He concluded that, were the ban to go ahead, there was a strong likelihood it would cause "irreparable injury" by violating First Amendment protections against religious discrimination.
His justification focused on comments made by Mr Trump and his advisers that suggested their intention was to ban people on the basis of their religion, even though the administration says this is not the case.
The Hawaii court also cited a "dearth of evidence indicating a national security purpose".
The justice department said the ruling was "flawed both in reasoning and in scope".
A judge in Maryland later also blocked the order, on the basis that the travel ban was likely to be considered a ban on Muslims and therefore unconstitutional.
Other legal challenges to the second order:
This is becoming a crucial question in the legal battle.
Ruling on the second version, the Hawaii court also dismissed the government's argument that the ban is not anti-Muslim because it targets all individuals from the six countries, regardless of religion, and the countries themselves represent only a small fraction of the world's Muslim population.
"The illogic of the government's contentions is palpable. The notion that one can demonstrate animus toward any group of people only by targeting all of them at once is fundamentally flawed," the court ruling said, pointing out that the countries' populations were between 90% and 99% Muslim.
The court also cites statements made by Mr Trump, such as a 2015 press release calling for "a total and complete shutdown of Muslims entering the United States".
But the Department of Justice says that a distinction should be made between things said as a candidate and as president.
In a bid to address religious discrimination issues, the second order removes a particular section that said refugees' claims should be prioritised "on the basis of religious-based persecution, provided that the religion of the individual is a minority religion in the individual's country of nationality".
Mr Trump previously said priority should be given to persecuted Christians.
The president said he would take the case "as far as it needs to go," including to the Supreme Court.
An appeal against the Hawaii decision would be expected to go next to the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals - the same court where a panel of three judges decided in February not to block a ruling by a Seattle court to halt the original travel ban.
However, on 16 March, five of the 29 judges at that court wrote a letter saying they believed that decision was an "error", and the first executive order was "well within the powers of the presidency".
If the Ninth Circuit were to uphold the Hawaii court's ruling, the government could appeal to the Supreme Court.
The Supreme Court is currently made up of four conservative and four liberal judges, awaiting the appointment of a replacement for the conservative Antonin Scalia who died last year.
