Brexit farming inquiry: UK ministers 'refuse to engage'
UK ministers responsible for farming have been criticised for an "apparent refusal to engage" with the assembly environment committee's Brexit inquiry.
Environment Secretary Andrea Leadsom rejected an invitation to appear before AMs while junior minister George Eustice cancelled at two days' notice.
The UK government said it was in "regular dialogue" with Welsh farmers. 
The committee is currently carrying out an inquiry into the future of farming in Wales post-Brexit, and was due to take evidence from Mr Eustice on Thursday.
"Given the importance of agricultural and farming policy in Wales, it is vital that AMs and the people of Wales hear directly from Ministers in the UK Government," Mr Reckless wrote.
"Furthermore, ensuring that future agricultural policy is a success in Wales and at a UK level will depend heavily on cooperation and mutual respect between the Assembly and UK Government.  
"The Committee's recent experience in trying to engage with UK ministers brings into doubt the UK Government's commitment to that spirit of cooperation and respect."
The letter goes on to say that the committee offered alternative dates and a video conference to both ministers.
Ms Leadsom, who visited south Wales earlier in February, did agree to meet Mr Reckless as the committee's chairman, but "subsequently cancelled that meeting at short notice", the letter added.
Mr Reckless now says he expects "as a matter of courtesy and respect" that Mr Eustice attend a meeting of the committee on 15 February or 8 March, "the only remaining sessions at which we can take evidence for this inquiry".
Plaid Cymru environment spokesperson Simon Thomas was critical of the UK government, saying: "Given the first hint of accountability for their decisions, Westminster ministers withdraw into their protective shells, far away from Welsh scrutiny."
John Mercer, director of farmers' union NFU Cymru - which did meet Ms Leadsom on her visit to Wales - said: "It is vital that all stakeholders and politicians work together to help achieve our common goal of delivering a thriving agricultural industry in Wales and the UK post-Brexit which can deliver for all of society."
Farmers' Union of Wales managing director Alan Davies added: "We very much hope that this is a postponed opportunity, rather than a failure to start discussions."
A spokesman for the UK Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs said: "Although it has not been possible for the minister to give evidence to the committee on this occasion, we are in regular dialogue with the industry in Wales and Welsh farmers and we will be working closely with them on future agriculture policy."
