Great Repeal Bill: What we know so far
Parliament may have given its approval for Theresa May to trigger the UK's departure from the EU but another Brexit battle is looming in the form of the government's Great Repeal Bill.
This is how ministers plan to ensure EU law no longer applies in the UK - and it's going to be a more complex piece of legislation than the 133-word Brexit bill just passed by MPs and peers.
The Great Repeal Bill, the PM announced in October, "means the UK will be an independent sovereign nation", with laws made in Westminster, not Brussels.
As the name suggests, it will repeal the European Communities Act, which says EU law is supreme to the UK, and ensure the UK leaves the jurisdiction of the European Court of Justice. But it will also transpose all EU legislation into domestic UK law.
This, the government says, will avoid a "black hole in our statute book" and avoid disruption to businesses as the UK leaves the EU.
The UK Parliament can then "amend, repeal and improve" the laws as necessary.
This is because picking out EU law is not as simple as it may sound.
Another issue is that not all EU law can be transposed into UK legislation. The government admits some of it "simply won't work on exit".
Laws might "make no sense" following Brexit - for example, because they refer to EU institutions - and many will need amending to be ready for Brexit day, the Commons Library report says.
A lot.
The total body of European law, dating back to 1958, is known as the Acquis Communautaire.
It binds all member states and in 2010 was estimated to consist of about 80,000 items.
These include EU treaties, directions, regulations and European Court of Justice rulings.
New EU legislation is being created all the time and will continue to apply in the UK until it leaves.
Reality check: How much UK law comes from the EU?
The bill will be introduced in the next Queen's Speech (expected in the spring) and will then have to pass through both Houses of Parliament. The plan is for it to be passed ahead of the UK's exit from the EU but to become law only when it actually leaves.
This means it is likely that negotiations between the UK and EU will be taking place while it passes through Parliament.
Those talks could shape what the UK's post-Brexit laws look like - but the Great Repeal Bill will need to be done and dusted by the day the UK leaves.
So ministers say the bill will give them powers (known as Henry VIII powers) to make changes to the law to "take account of the negotiations as they proceed".
This could prove controversial, and raises the risk of ministers being able to "pick and choose" laws without consulting Parliament, the Lords Constitution Committee says.
"Scrutiny must not be sidelined," it adds.
In the meantime, the government has promised to publish, in a White Paper, more details of how the process will work.
Until the UK actually leaves, EU law will continue to apply there. But after leaving, the Great Repeal Act (as it will be by then) comes into force.
The government says having the legislation in place will ensure a "calm and orderly exit". Then begins the long-term process of the government, and Parliament, choosing what it wants to do with the laws it has incorporated from the EU.
With so many pieces of legislation to be considered, this could turn out to be a "major drain on resources" and should not "crowd out" other government policies, the Institute for Government think tank has warned.
The role of the devolved administrations has yet to be fully set out. The government has suggested their consent will be required, as it will have implications in areas they are responsible for.
Scotland's Brexit minister has warned the Scottish government could block the legislation if its interests are not represented in the negotiations.
The UK government says this could have "very significant consequences", leaving "a hole in our law".
Another issue to be settled is what will happen to laws brought back from Brussels that fall into areas that are devolved to Scotland, Wales or Northern Ireland, like agriculture.
This leaves the UK and devolved governments with "potentially overlapping responsibilities", the Lords committee warned.
