Paraguay country profile
Landlocked Paraguay is at the heart of South America, surrounded by Argentina, Bolivia and Brazil.
Political unrest, corruption and chronic economic problems have plagued the country's fragile democracy since it emerged from the 35-year dictatorship of the late Gen Alfredo Stroessner in 1989. 
It remains one of the region's poorest countries, with over 40% of its people living in poverty. Much of the land is in the hands of a tiny elite and successive governments have been slow to implement land reform.
Its economy is reliant on agriculture and hydroelectric power. Unlike its neighbours, Paraguay has evaded mass tourism.
Most of the population is of mixed Spanish and Guarani descent, known as mestizos, and speak the indigenous language Guarani as well as Spanish.
The Triple Frontier region, where Paraguay meets Argentina and Brazil, has long been associated with drug-smuggling and other contraband trade.
President: Horacio Cartes
Tobacco magnate Horacio Cartes won a five-year presidential term in April 2013, beating main rival and Liberal Party candidate Efrain Alegre.
His victory returned the right-wing Colorado Party to the executive office it held for six decades before left-wing former Roman Catholic bishop Fernando Lugo won the presidential election in 2008.
Mr Lugo was impeached in June 2012 over his handling of a deadly land dispute, a move that several regional governments denounced as a "legislative coup" by the conservative assembly. Mr Cartes' election has helped bring Paraguay back into their good graces.
He has pledged to lead Paraguay in "a new direction". A week after he was sworn in, parliament voted in favour of giving Mr Cartes new powers allowing him to deploy the military against left-wing rebels of the Paraguayan People's Army (EPP).
Mr Cartes is one of Paraguay's wealthiest people and part of the tiny elite that controls just about everything in the country. 
Private and public outlets make up the broadcasting landscape and media ownership is highly concentrated.
The media operate with few official curbs. Crime reporting can be perilous in an area bordering Brazil and Argentina. 
Some key dates in Paraguay's history:
